so for all of you guys who were
wondering like how does change happen
just watch that interview and you'll see
it at the end you can see it in his face
his degree of animation his posture like
there's something very subtle and small
changing inside him
okay so um what why don't you just start
by telling it what would you like me to
call you on stream i think Gork is fine
okay it's the easy so Gord can you tell
us a little bit about what's bringing
you on today and how we can be helpful I
know we just talked about um yeah so
what's bringing me I guess is well I've
been friends for with reckful for the
past couple months years or so we talked
a bit about let's say that the pressures
of streaming is stuff like that yeah and
I saw the stream you had with you and I
mean that really made me wake up and
realize maybe I should also talk to a
therapist in general and deal with my
[ __ ]
yeah I guess so what is said [ __ ]
said [ __ ] what do you mean what what is
thought your [ __ ] what is it that you
need to deal with well I mean I have an
entire list of mental issues I guess
that I need to address one by one but
they're all I guess rooted in the fact
that I'm not so happy I guess always
unhappy with myself okay and tell me a
little bit more about that so my main
issue I guess is that no matter how well
I do in a stream or how how well I do
during the stream how good my numbers
are there's always something I could do
better and I'm always unhappy with it
and when I couldn't understand it enough
that this is very like deep deep and
happiness that I haven't felt before in
my life because I feel an immense amount
of pressure because I care a lot about
my stream and what I'm doing okay what
is it that you help me understand why
you care so much uh well I don't know I
really I I just care about it a lot
because it feels like I accomplished
something nice and I guess I have a fear
of losing it all the time as well so I
need to keep it up I feel like I don't
know what if maybe through it and I've
thought about this myself before maybe
zero didn't money but I don't think so
maybe it's rooted in some kind of
validation from other people I'm not
actually sure yeah sure so let's maybe
let's see if we can understand that a
little bit better so I just want to try
to summarize because because Gork and I
talked a little bit before we came on
and this was kind of last minute so Gork
was kind of telling me that
he has this sense of inadequacy or not
inadequacy but that you know it's almost
like your success is like temporary and
like you wanna know and that you can do
really really well and then you still
sort of feel like you didn't do a great
job or you could have done better and
that many times things start to go south
for you like if you're if you're losing
a game or something like that and what
do you play by the way I play dota 2
okay I mean that when you're losing a
game like you start to feel what
well I start to feel inadequate like you
said and the snowballs out of control
where mine adequacy leads to me playing
worse and being less funny in my opinion
at least and being more whiny or
whatever which also gets into my head
even further and then that cycles
throughout the entire stream and even
into the next days which makes me just
feel awful
okay almost all the time why does your
stream have to be successful uh I don't
know I feel like I guess more than
anything was important to me it's sort
of forward momentum and also I guess I
feel some kind of validation of me being
more successful than other streamers
just make yeah I don't know if that
makes any sense but when I look at other
streamers and I see that I'm more
successful than them it makes me feel
good but I don't know why okay because
the reason I say that is because when I
see let's say an undersea man competing
with do really well then I feel unhappy
for some reason even though maybe I
shouldn't okay so I
Gork the first thing that I want to do
is actually give you a pat on the back
because I think you're doing a fantastic
job of facing some feelings that I think
other people would shy away from mm-hmm
so the number of people that I know that
you know feel that like people delude
themselves into thinking that they
actually don't feel satisfaction when
they do better than someone else yeah
like if you're you know if you get an a
on a test and someone else gets a B like
there are a lot of people who like lie
to themselves and say yeah like yeah the
only reason that I I'm happy is because
I got an A I don't care what I knew and
I'll Scott but it's a very simple truth
that sometimes
the way that we feel about ourselves and
other people has to do with like us
being better than them no I really don't
want to feel that way but I feel like if
I had to be honest with you and with
myself then that is at least mature yeah
and I just want to commend you for that
because you know one of the simplest
problems that people run across is that
like they don't believe they don't
accept things about themselves that they
don't want to be true and so I think
you've taken the first and most
important step in recognizing that the
person that you are depends a little bit
on the way that you relate to other
people yeah so now let's try to
understand a little bit about where that
comes from so how long have you felt
that way I don't know I mean I guess if
I'm feeling that way for as long as I
can remember with streaming and me
comparing myself to others I mean back
in school wave and the only reason I
felt like I even tried to get good
grades at all was just because I wanted
to be better than my than the other guys
in my class it was nothing about and I
don't really know what else motivated me
really okay and and when you were saying
that you wanted to be better than other
people in your class like how old what
are we talking about I don't know I feel
like I was always like a goofball up
until like eighth grade because that's
when in Sweden they add like grades and
when they added grades for some reason I
straighten up my act completely I would
say I still did the very bare minimum to
get an A but I always made sure I try to
get an A in the class before that I
didn't care about school at all but as
soon as they come some kind of grading
system came I start caring but I still
played a lot of video games obviously
and stuff but I at least I did the bare
minimum to be better than others that's
what I felt like and when you were
better than others how did you feel uh I
don't know a sense of satisfaction I
guess I'm not sure okay so we have to
understand that right so what do you
remember about my cat sling on my
keyboard yes sorry what do you remember
about how you felt in high school when
you got is I don't know really I've
always I mean I guess something that
also drove me except for feeling better
than others was
the fact that if I had good grades or if
I did well I had a sort of a secure or a
cushy future or whatever so now it just
made me feel secure I guess that I'm not
bad I'm not sure I've never really
thought about it I'm just gonna think
for a second because I'm trying to
figure out how to phrase this yeah I
think oddly enough
Gork I I don't think the issue is about
feeling better than others I'm really
curious about
I think it's that's the that's the side
of the coin that's one side of the coin
is when you feel adequate you feel
superior and you feel better
mm-hmm what I'm really curious about is
like how do you feel when you get a beat
yeah I don't know I feel like I feel
like a disappointment to myself more
than anything okay in in what way are
you disappointing yourself
I just I mean I don't know ever since I
was like a small kid everybody just said
I'm the smart kid or whatever and then I
feel like I'm just betraying that image
of myself which made me feel so good I'm
such a smart kid or whatever and then
all of a sudden it all comes crumbling
down as soon as I don't perform and the
same with streaming you know when people
put pressure on you that oh you're the
biggest dota 2 streamer right now
wherever as soon as I feel like I'm not
the biggest or I'm not growing fast
enough I feel like my entire entire
self-image just crumbles yes okay so I
think that's where the money is
okay so we're gonna talk about that so
what we're talking about here is
hold on
is living up to expectations yeah
that's what this does that make sense
like what I'm hearing from you is that
like you have expectations that you need
to live up to and if you don't live up
to those expectations then you're kind
of letting everyone down and you feel
bad about yourself
no and the scary thing yeah so I yeah so
we can get into it more later but it's
not like I just feel bad I literally
feel like I don't want to live anymore
it like it gets to that point where I
shut out everybody out of my life and
like I totally isolate myself in-between
my streams
I just feel what other people out what
it what is it that you don't want them
to see
I don't know I just feel like I feel
like even an even angrier version of
myself as soon as I start sharing with
other people it's kind of hard for me to
share with other people because all that
builds up to me is this like self
conflicting thing where I I'm not really
who I present myself to be so I just
feel shamed I guess yeah in the way I am
or acted or I'm not succeeding yeah so
you feel ashamed for not living up to
expectations yeah mostly the ones I put
on myself with you I don't think anybody
else but what's really hi expecting them
not my parents or anything okay and so
if there are expectations that you put
on yourself why do you have to shut
people out what is it that makes you
shut people out when you're not living
up to them no no it just feels like I
don't know whenever I talk about it like
now talking about it with you it's not
so bad but I never talk about other
people it just brings back those
feelings of inadequacy and those make me
so angry that even feel like that in the
first place so it just cycles my anger
yes okay so fantastic I mean ah so I do
this thing on stream where I say
positive things but it's not that yeah
it's no no it's just I think it's a
really important point okay because
you're noticing there are two things
going on there is the original thing
that happens in your mind and then there
is the way that you judge yourself for
having that thing mm-hmm
there's the initial thing and then
there's the reaction to the thing
there's the feeling ashamed and then
getting angry at yourself for feeling
the way that you do mm-hmm those are two
separate things each of them have their
own origin let's start with let me just
think for a second
when did you start beating yourself up
I don't know I've never really beaten
myself as much as when I started
streaming I guess that's when all this
pressure came okay and tell me about
beating yourself up when since you
started streaming
I don't know I guess I feel like it all
goes back to the an image I build up
about myself that I don't feel like I
live up to so like I build up an image
of you know like whatever up-and-coming
or big streamer or whatever kind of
label I want to put on it when as soon
as I don't feel like I live up to it
even living up to something like as I'm
funny or good at the game anything
really as soon as I don't feel like I'm
like I'm doing it I just get so angry at
myself and I really hate it okay why is
it important for you to be a big person
I don't know actually
I don't have a clue it's just something
that drives me okay do you feel like a
small person
okay can you tell me about can you tell
me about your upbringing a little bit
hmmm I don't know what's what's much to
say like I was mostly raised by my mom
pretty relaxed parents I could play
however late into the night I wanted to
I was kind of free to set my own goals
and expectations about school and I did
that I never had really any pressure to
do anything maybe sometimes I got like
foreign parents they're like why don't
you become a doctor I mean like maybe I
mean that's that's as far as it went
there's nothing like super pressure
about it mmm I don't know I I had a
pretty normal childhood I guess I wasn't
I was kind of a class clown in my first
years and then I became like more of a
gamer / odden type of person mm-hmm in
my high school years I was never them
never the most popular kid but I was
never bullied either or anything like
that okay so what I'm hearing from you
is that there's like there's no like
sometimes when people come on stream you
know there's something really bad that
happened to them or someone that treated
them very badly or something like that
and I'm not hearing any of that from you
know I wouldn't say so okay no can you
tell me a little bit about you have
siblings by the way I have one older
brother but he's like nine or 10 years
older me so we're not super close what
do you remember about him growing up
well I remember he didn't let me pray
and play on the computer a lot which
annoyed me other than that I mean we
weren't we're there was such a big age
difference between us that he was like
living his own life and I was living
mine he was almost like a father figure
to me in some ways because my dad wasn't
around um I don't know what there's to
say it was like I met him every other
weekend
he was an alright dad he was okay and I
don't really know what to say about it
me he wasn't he he liked me / he loved
me a lot but he wasn't very nice to my
mother he wasn't a very nice to my
family in overall so my mother alienated
from me me from him
the first 10 or 12 years of my life I
guess but yeah we got closer in in the
end he got sick and he died when I was
about 15 by then we had gotten pretty
close to each other at least yeah so but
I wouldn't say he was a big part of my
life before
last part of his I guess if that makes
sense yeah it makes a lot of sense it
sounds like he wasn't really a big part
of your life and then just when you guys
were getting closer he sort of
unfortunately ended up passing away no
how do you feel about that uh well I
feel like some in some ways I feel like
I got robbed a bit kind of a dad cuz you
know he wasn't really there when in my
teenage years so I feel like I need him
a lot I feel like my late teen years are
pretty rough
I think my dad could have helped a lot
but I don't know the thing I think about
my dad was the most guilty like the most
guilty thing I've ever feel about my
life was when my dad was dying he was
like sick in the hospital I didn't go
visit him because I felt I think I
justify it I felt like it was too hard
to sit there with him as he was dying it
was but instead I just sat formalist
played video games and I every time I
think about him I just think about I
should have [ __ ] been there you know
that's what I think about when I think
about my dad I'd only think about much
else cuz that's when we were the closest
yeah so let me ask you something Gork
what were you in that moment when you
didn't go see your dad what kind of
person were you I was just I don't know
I wasn't a person I feel like I was just
floating in the clouds playing video
games if I had to say what kind of
person I was it wasn't really a person
it was just you know is the boy playing
video games didn't care about anything
in the world
yeah let me try word inadequate
inadequate by not going to see him I
like guilting myself about stuff that's
one other thing the most simple form of
inadequacy right
the most simple the most devastating how
can I say this you know in order to be a
good person in order to be a good son in
order to you know do the right thing no
just had to do one thing and that was go
stood us up to be there yeah and you
didn't do that no so what kind of person
doesn't do that well I don't know I feel
like now to think about it if I was
older I would feel really bad about it
but I don't know I feel like then I was
just a kid and I was a stupid but I
still feel guilty about it because I was
not that young I was like 14 15 yeah so
we're gonna get to that and how that
part of your mind works but let me ask
you this when you're losing a game
mm-hmm and people are trolling you yeah
does that feel at all like how when they
attack you is that how you feel is that
what you tell yourself when you feel
guilty does that make sense uh when they
attack me what do I do you attack
yourself in the same way like when you
get angry with yourself yeah I mean I'm
already very angry with myself I like
most of my anger doesn't like come from
other people putting pressure on me I
feel like it just affirms it yeah in a
way that's exactly right so I think the
problem here the reason that you're so
sensitive to other people attacking you
is because
those guys are actually like like when
people attack you on stream those are
the people that you're queueing with
okay those are the people in your party
that make sense now guess who's the
captain I'm the captain
absolutely mm-hmm right and what's the
goal to win and what does winning mean
with those guys and use the captain
beating the opponent yeah in the
opponent this time is like proving to
yourself that you're kind of like a
piece of [ __ ] it's attacking you right
now they're like you're attacking you
they're attacking you mm-hmm
and that's like because you just like
there's a part of you that feels like
you deserve it you know for sure and
let's just think about this for a second
why do you deserve it because I'm not
good enough for myself yes and when did
you start becoming not good enough uh I
don't know whenever I put these
standards on myself I guess I started
streaming and people built up an image
about me that I needed to uphold I think
it goes deeper than that right cuz I
think at that point you were already you
were already the party leader okay and
the stream just started to grow things
it was like accelerant or fertilizer for
what was already there so I absolutely
believe because that's what streaming
does like streaming this is something
that everyone needs to understand social
media just amplifies the feelings that
you already have right like when you
watch like when you think about
something like FOMO like fear of missing
out right like you already feel like
you're missing out in some things in
life and when social media like shows
all the things that you're missing out
it amplifies like all of your weaknesses
and vulnerabilities it amplifies your
inadequacies I don't think it creates
them I think it just takes what's there
and like messes with our brain because
suddenly like when it comes to your
sense of self-worth
Gork
that's kind of like a nebulous thing
like you can't quantify your sense of
self-worth until you start streaming and
then you can modify it right like you
can look and you can see like okay like
I'm half as good as I used to be
yesterday and there's a lot of
protection in not being able to quantify
stuff you're like ah that's just a
feeling but now you have proof about how
you're becoming a worse person no and
that can be very damaging so I do
believe that the stream sort of made a
lot of this stuff worse but it sounds to
me like you had some of these feelings
of inadequacy like way before that yeah
I guess I've always had them they're
just gone a lot worse the past couple
years that I believe in I'm sorry about
that and I hope today we'll be able to
help you some and we can also talk a
little bit more afterward about thinking
about how how to better manage this
stuff okay so a couple of other things
cork I I know I just wanted you know you
were a little bit concerned about coming
on because there are some people who
troll you and you were worried about
giving them ammo which i think is yeah
yeah I mean I don't know I feel like
it's I already exposed myself a lot on
my stream and I feel like I don't know
even exposing myself even more sounds
like a dangerous thing talking about why
I feel the way I feel and stuff yeah so
many people are gonna press on it more
but when I'm feeling down yeah so I
appreciate you coming on because I think
you're actually doing something really
important for everyone who's watching
and this doesn't work unless people are
willing to come on and be authentic and
that's like I think the thing from
reckful stream that people are kind of
running with his AoE healing okay and
and it doesn't like it requires people
like you so I want to thank you for
coming on even at risk to yourself the
other thing that I want to tell you is
that if does if [ __ ] does go south for
you please let me know and I'm happy to
try to help you work through that like
online or offline like if it's there
attacking you then we should probably do
it offline all right thanks but you know
I I don't want to yeah I don't want
anything that we do here to actually
hurt you in any way so I'm here for you
thanks I want to get back to this thing
though because I think to me like it's
kind of interesting that
you know you're angry at yourself for
being we use the word inadequate but I
wonder if it actually even runs deeper
like it's almost like the world realizes
sometimes that you're a shitty person
yeah that maybe I feel like I mean
definitely something I've thought about
a lot whenever I'm feeling bad am i
myself I feel like oh [ __ ] people are
gonna find out I'm a fraud or something
like that that's a shitty feeling to
have yeah so so this is important right
because like why do you think that
you're a fraud to begin with like where
does that sense of being a fraud because
I think this is what happens like when
you succeed it doesn't actually build
your confidence all it does is increase
your terror yeah oh yeah for sure right
which is weird like you'd think that
like people think that confidence comes
from success like they think like oh
like Gork is a sucessful streamer like
he does such a good job like why isn't
he confident but the funny thing is that
the higher you rise the more unstable
you become yeah why what goes on in the
longer the fall and this is the other
thing this is important to understand
Gork you feel like it's inevitable that
you're gonna fall it feels like it I
mean I don't know my success was very
rapid I guess mm-hmm in a sense so why
wouldn't the downfall be as well I think
it's goes deeper than that that's just
logic
this isn't logic okay so the let me I'm
gonna I would ask you but I think it's
like a little bit too much of read my
mind so I'm gonna start just kind of
offering some ideas right so the person
who
knows that the fall is coming eventually
is the person who like it doesn't have
faith in who they are so like if I
calibrate to be I'm gonna use dota
terminology because I know it cork tape
plays dota and I play DotA so for people
who don't play dota apologies funny
video so so like like if I calibrate to
Ange so actually this happened to me so
I played my first calibration game for
for court and I was in a group of like I
was in an ancient game so it was like a
bunch of ancient slurs like oh [ __ ] and
then like actually a turtle I played a
Elsi offlane game and I ended up winning
and I've actually played really well and
so then like but I was I was actually
terrified because I was like oh [ __ ]
that means like my next calibration game
is gonna be like higher than a [ __ ]
right or it's like instead of being like
ancient once and ain't you - so it's
gonna be like high ancient and then then
I ended up losing that second game but
like even though like I didn't gain
confidence from the game
I gained fear I became more afraid
because I knew in my heart that I wasn't
an ancient okay I know that I'm like
somewhere between Archon and legend like
that's like in my heart of hearts that's
what I believe about myself and I'm not
actually nature that's like a self
damaging belief yeah but I believe it
right okay like I mean I know that about
myself
mmm-hmm and so what do I think is gonna
happen like let's say I play another
ancient game and if I believe that I'm
an Archon player and I play like ancient
and I win again like what happens to
that belief I mean it kind of depends
but I guess it stays there or maybe
disappear and I'm like oh it's only a
matter of time before I start [ __ ] up
and my MMR begins to fall only a matter
of time
yeah that's how you feel about yourself
right for sure absolutely
so now we get to the point Gork why do I
believe I'm an Archon why do I have your
words that self damaging belief where
does that come from
I don't know something you made up
yourself comes from somewhere right like
somewhere along the way like I had some
idea that like I'm an Archon so in your
case
what do you believe about yourself I
don't know I mean it varies from day to
day when I have a good day I feel good
about myself I feel like I'm the man no
no no no I know you feel like you're man
you're the man so that's a good yeah so
on those good days when things get quiet
and you have a moment that you stop
thinking that you're the man what's the
scary thought that's floating around in
the back of your mind you know should I
can't wait to have a bad day it's coming
soon yes right that's an Archon inside
you so then the question becomes like
like what do you think about yourself in
that moment
give me color give me flavor well I
think about myself on the bed I don't
know it's mostly just fear all the time
I feel like I fear sometimes after had a
good serum I don't even want to scream
the next day because I fear having a sad
stream I've been in a bad mood yes what
are you afraid of what does that mean if
you have a bad stream I will feel
terrible in myself I'll beat myself up
about it so then I don't want to feel
that way and why are you beating
yourself up because I am not good enough
and where did you learn that you're not
good enough I don't know I'm not sure
and in your life so if we think about
someone who isn't good enough it means
that they don't do a good job right yeah
and you have a really powerful belief
that you're not good enough agreed you
have a really deep seat deep-seated
belief that you're like Guardian like
not even calm but gardener like I
believe I'm an Archon but you believe
deep down that you're a guardian or
whatever there's nothing below Guardian
is so like that belief is potent and
that you're not good enough mm-hmm and
if we think about it like for you to not
be good enough you had to do you had to
really [ __ ] up something like really
simple
like us just play a really shitty game
of dota and that got like burned in your
mind what what did you [ __ ] up that was
just so incredibly simple that the only
person who would [ __ ] it up would be the
person that like is just completely
incompetent right that belief about
yourself comes from somewhere no I don't
I can't really I don't I can't really
think back that far I pop into my mind
right away how did you feel like in the
post my mind is I guess I felt like I
felt like [ __ ]
actually that's not even the truth I
didn't even feel like [ __ ]
the first Wow itself sounds really bad
no way I really felt like I think I got
older and more mature I was like holy
[ __ ] I was so stupid back then that no
when I got a little bit older that's
when I felt like it's is really so
simple and if I was in his seat how
would I feel by my kid not coming I
don't know like you hear that it's so
simple no right that's the Guardian
level language it's so simple all you
had to do hold on one second
so all you had to do was show up and
it's so simple like you see what I mean
like that's Guardian level like all you
have to do is [ __ ] like you know just
right-click the enemy hero that's all
you've got to do mmm
you couldn't even do that and then as
you grew older how did you start to feel
about yourself
I've always felt worse and worse every
year
I feel like worse and worse right and
worse in what way I mean it kind of
depends I feel worse in a lot of ways I
think there are too many ways there are
two things I mean how did 18 year old
feel how did 18 year old you feel about
14 year old you thought I was an idiot
just that was plain and simple wasn't
like I had the wrong priorities back
then or so I'm not really sure yeah so
I'm getting a lot of so Gorka I'm asking
you a lot of sort of repetitive
questions does it feel like that do ya
no no no okay so I think part of what
we're going through is something called
alexithymia so I think that that I can I
can like you understand when I explain
analogies right like you understand that
like what I mean by Guardian love will
belief and that you have like a really
deep seat set believe that you're in
your lack like in who you are like you
think that you're just a fundamentally
like a failure
yeah and so despite all of your
successes you can't shake that feeling
and that's because that feeling doesn't
come from done' it comes from somewhere
else so it's kind of like saying like oh
like you know you keep on losing the
game because you're not my mid isn't
rotating enough and but that's not the
reason you're losing the reason you're
losing is because you always [ __ ]
pick alchemist and you build you by 14
tangos at the beginning yeah and so it's
a misdiagnosis which is why it's not
fixing the problem mm-hmm
and so I think that the challenge here
is that like you understand this stuff
on an intellectual level but whenever I
ask you about how you felt it's hard for
you to come up with words yeah
because I really genuinely feel like I
didn't feel anything like them yes and
and this is because of gaming so it's
partially because you're male partially
because of your biology and partially
because you're gaming so when we play
video games so you kind of said like
what were you doing when your dad was
dying I was playing World of Warcraft
and so what what do you think that does
to the way that you feel numb absolutely
so the problem here is that when I'm
asking you about how you felt you don't
remember because you didn't feel it and
the reason you didn't feel it is because
you were playing World of Warcraft and
World of Warcraft has a wonderful effect
on your brain there's a part of your
brain called the amygdala and there's a
car part of your brain called the limbic
system the amygdala is sort of our fear
and survival center our limbic system is
our emotional center of the brain if I
do a study and I take a bunch of people
who are playing World of Warcraft what
do you think I'll see in their amygdala
a limbic system what does it do to that
part of the brain
well as Olga we flat land right there
good absolutely exactly correct shuts it
off so when we play video games weeks
the the experience of negative emotion
goes away yeah right
so like I'm hearing a couple of really
interesting things which suggests to me
that the money is somewhere around early
high school so here's what I forgot so
far I used to be a class clown what
happened in high school my dad thought
yeah right and then you became isolated
you started playing video games I think
it's unfair to say I was playing a lot
of video games before that as well sure
but yeah so and that but but the
isolation started around then right yeah
okay so the other thing that you were
mentioning is that when did you start
comparing yourself to other people and
caring about grades that was in eighth
grade okay that's when you're on of
thirteen or something for yeah I'm not
sure and what when did your dad get sick
around 13 or 14 I guess okay
it was around there is one half year of
cancer Yeah right so like I think some
things like there's just too many things
and when I asked you like before we
started talking to streaming I'd asked
you like you know when did the feelings
of inadequacy begin like when did you
start compare actually not of to
feelings of inadequacy this is different
when did you start getting satisfaction
by being better than other people and
what did you say
do you remember I don't remember but I
guess it was around eighth grade then
right with the grades yeah so there are
a lot of logical reasons why you know
like you didn't have grades before
eighth grade yeah you know actually you
had been gaming before but like to me it
seems like bizarre that in a span of 45
minutes we come to like this one time
zone over and over and over again yeah
and so I think something really powerful
happened to you during that time and I
think you don't even know what happened
to you because there were parts of your
brain like you were blocking it out so
heavily that like you didn't even
understand what was happening yeah but I
don't you don't keep on talking about
when you were eight you don't keep on
talking about when you were 18 you don't
keep on talking about when you were 21
mm-hmm I don't remember those days so
well I feel like I'm well I'm also not
something to mention I don't think I've
cried since then neither since I was 13
yeah I have definitely not cried at all
I've been through breakups and many
deaths and families of I've never really
felt like a visceral emotional response
to it even though I'm not I don't think
I'm a psychopath or anything but I just
can't express myself that yeah so this
is also so the alexithymia means
inability to determine your internal
emotional environment so you don't know
what you feel yeah like your brain has
become so that limbic system that
amygdala has become so shut off that you
don't it's almost like you don't have
the capacity to cry no like when when
people think like Oh someone hasn't
cried like they must be really strong
like it's not that you're strong
although you are it's just that you
literally don't know how to yeah and so
I think that that like to me it sounds
to me like you've really done one thing
that I can think of that justifies the
way that you feel about yourself which
is that you're inadequate and that
you're kind of like fundamentally a
failure and that people are gonna see
like even though you pretend to be
something big and wonderful and glorious
people are gonna see one day that you're
a complete piece of [ __ ] and what do you
think I think that thing is well I think
that's related to me not visiting my dad
absolutely because that is the most
basic thing no what do you think
I think you're it's kind of hard for me
to like agree with you because I know it
like you said I feel like my emotions
have flatlined so I can't really fully
agree with you because I don't know
really if that's the case or not yep
so now now this is kind of an
interesting place right so sometimes
people come on stream and they like have
these like big emotional like oh like
you know like reckful was like really
emotional and like Scotty was really
emotional and people get really
emotional and I think like there's I'm
almost concerned that there's like an
expectation that that's what's gonna
happen it's not and I can't put on the
waterworks I'm sorry yeah and I I don't
think you should alright so like even
that like I feel the pressure of like
making you cry but I don't you're going
in for the kill okay I mean I think
we're there I think it's just you're
just so emotionally flatlined that
that's not gonna happen so what we have
to do is like like you know we have to
explore those emotions you got to like
learn how to experience and remember and
I think that the way that this is gonna
happen is through like actually your
anger because you can experience anger
Oh anger can experience a lot yes let
let's talk about this for a second like
I'm gonna just explain something to you
Gork so and feel free to jump in if you
have questions or thoughts or agree or
disagree so anger I want everyone to
understand this anger is a protective
emotion right so like anger is the
emotion that we feel to bury all of our
other emotions yeah so when I when I get
like when I get dumped by my girlfriend
can you guys imagine like sure sometimes
I'll feel sad but other times like I
won't feel sad at all be I'll just be
[ __ ] pissed I'll be angrier mmm-hmm
I'll be like [ __ ] her like she doesn't
know what she's missing she doesn't she
she's not gonna end up with anyone good
like she's a piece of [ __ ] how could she
do this to me like [ __ ] her does that
make sense to you that someone could
feel that way
of course right so what there are other
emotions too like there are other
thoughts and feelings that they could be
having like what else do you think they
could be feeling
instead of anger yeah or underneath the
anger well I guess a bunch of emotions
like jealousy and a hatred I guess it's
kind of like anger sadness of course
yeah right so there are other thoughts
that they could be having but they don't
realize they're having these thoughts
which is that if she dumped me
is everyone else going to as well like
that thought almost always is there but
people don't they don't realize that but
there are other like deeper thoughts
like am i fundamentally unlovable is
something wrong with me yeah all that
stuff is there but we just don't feel it
so in your case Gork I think that this
may feel a little bit unsatisfying but I
think in your case you've got to learn
how to do a couple of things one is
recognize that there's something inside
you which I think you've already done
which sort of fundamentally like you
start with this idea that like you're
like a guardian level player okay you
have to think about like that comes from
somewhere right and and out of
everything that we've put to you I think
logically I think I can win you over
although I fully understand that it
doesn't feel right that it has to do
with your dad but I think that's because
you're so separated from your feelings
that it's not gonna feel like anything
if you were if you were in touch with
because this is comes from a feeling
it's not logic right and then and since
you're so since you're not capable of
feeling things besides anger right now
you're not gonna be able to find the
source of it because you're blind it's
like you're playing dota with your
monitor off and then like you know it's
not going to be able to tell what's
going on like it's just impossible so we
have to teach you how to feel your
emotions and I think the first thing
that we're gonna do is through anger
like anger is gonna be your clue the
other thing at some point that I think
you should do is learn how to forgive
yourself mm-hmm
what do you think that's hard yeah
that's my main issue I can't do that
it's impossible why not
well we said a couple words before the
sodastream but it was it's basically
because I feel like me not forgiving
myself is feeling like me giving up on
improving
like I think a reason I even had success
in the first place of because I always
no matter what like started my stream
every day no matter how bad I felt I
just I just started and even though I
hate like how I performed I started
every day I'm like vigilant and if I
forgive myself and started taking it
easy on myself I feel like I'm gonna
stop improving that's the fear I have
all the time so let me ask you this what
is forgiving what what is what what do
you think forgiving yourself means I
don't know giving yourself a break from
failures
okay
and
you're not willing to do that it's hard
I know it's probably better to do it but
I I just can't there's like the block
for me not yeah I've thought about it
it's destructive behavior like hating
myself and it only leads to me being
worse person and being more unhappy but
I just can't stop doing it's like the
main issue I have yeah so we did talk a
little bit before it and and this is the
thing that I explained to Gork which
I'll explain to everyone else I did I
think in gorks case this is dangerous
because the way that he treats him the
way you treat yourself court is
responsible for a lot of your success
mm-hmm right that being unable to
forgive yourself is a lot of what keeps
you as successful because that's where
your drive comes from that's where your
work ethic comes from you don't know if
you don't deserve to rest you don't
deserve forgiveness you just need to do
better and better and better and better
and then like it's like you're whipping
yourself right like you're whipping
yourself like you're like like whipping
like a horse or cattle or something to
run you're like harder Gork harder more
and more it's not good enough it's not
good enough keep going
I don't care if it hurts you keep going
and then what happens to social media
and twitch come along and they say hey
look when you do this to yourself
you become what door angry
angry sure but I was going for
successful okay right so then the world
tells you hey this is a winning strategy
this works for you look at all the
viewers you're getting so beat yourself
up more man yeah and there's pie little
it they just what they help help beating
me as well a little bit right and that's
you guys are like that's why you you
know like here's the thing gorg do you
think you would stream do you think that
it would help or hurt your motivation if
everyone in stream loved you constantly
sorry if you cut out there for a second
sorry do you think it would help or hurt
your motivation if everyone on stream
loved you constantly no I will just feel
like it would something would be wrong
then like okay good
what would be wrong I mean I've had this
before where I feel mad about myself and
stuff but people feel sympathy for me
and I mean there are generally some very
nice people out there that feel sympathy
for me but then I feel like I don't
deserve it
and then it just gets worse like I just
give you an anger because forehand
there's so many people out there you
know they're gonna be supported and
stuff and it's like it's just but I it's
not right you know I didn't do well
enough to deserve it
yeah so when did you deserve when did
you how did you learn that you don't
deserve other people's kindness what
kind of person doesn't deserve people's
kindness
Gork
I don't know nobody I guess but so what
kind of person like why don't you
deserve other people's kindness like
everyone does except you okay yeah right
yeah but I don't know why like what is
because I'm not good enough that's it
pretty much it yeah I just didn't
perform well enough from you you're not
good enough yeah
did you feel that way when you were like
growing up
yeah a lot of the time I always had my
older brother to compare with and he was
always better is older stronger bigger
mm-hmm never quite as good as him okay
[Music]
I'm smiling because I think I'm I'm a
I have one more thing that I'd like to
ask you about so tell me about you said
that when you were growing up your
parents were divorced yeah since I was
four okay and what were what were things
like you said something about your your
dad didn't treat your mom well well my
earliest childhood memories was my dad
like yelling a lot of my mom and my mom
complaining a lot about my dad basically
and I was kind of in between all that
stuff and it sucks as a kid
okay what sucked about it
sucked I don't know
suck just the knowing that my dad is so
[ __ ] according to my mom and that they
hate each other so much and I didn't
understand why when I was a kid I didn't
know what my dad had done wrong only
that I was taught to hate him too for
the first like 10 years of my life
mm-hmm and then after that I realized
maybe that wasn't the full truth but
yeah how did tell me about that how were
you taught to hate your dad well
basically it was a piece of [ __ ] because
well one reason I do think justifiably I
should maybe not like my dad my dad was
pretty well-off not super well-off but
he was well-off my mom didn't have like
a job and she was struggling a lot she
was like I remember her even crying in
the kitchen one day because you didn't
have a job and I knew my dad had money
and could help us out but he'd like bail
on us and that made me start hate my dad
as well a lot and also made me really
fearful of also running out of money one
day though that would suck a lot being
like my mom crying on the table like in
front of my kids that it's very shitty
she like drained my brother's bank
account just to be able to pay month's
rent and stuff and that's really
something that [ __ ] with me and in
what way well ever since ever since that
moment I remember that moment very
clearly ever since that moment I've
never liked I never liked spending money
like whatever money I make right now I
save everything because I'm really
fearful of running out of it and I hate
spending on anything that's excessive
for myself mm-hmm because I'm afraid of
losing all my money and yeah well like I
said my dad could have helped us out but
he didn't and my mom was stuck in a
shitty situation and do you remember I
mean so it sounds like you remember a
specific instance where your mom was
crying yeah I remember that very clearly
how did it do you remember what it felt
like to watch her cry
I don't know I just remember I felt I
felt like angry and I felt sad because I
think that that's as I mean genuinely
when I thought about is that I think
that's what a lot of things that drives
me is the fact that I don't want to be
poor like that and you know I don't want
my mom to be out of money again she's
better now but what were you sad about I
don't know I was sad about her being sad
I'm not sure I was too young to
understand really yeah hmm and what
changed for you around the age of 10
well like I said I just got a lot more
money conscious at a very young age I
didn't spend my allowance I didn't do
anything like that I just gave it all
back to my mom hmm that's rare
I felt very different from other kids in
that regard but I just didn't feel right
how are you different from other kids
that I didn't like spending money I
didn't like buying toys and [ __ ] like
that okay hmm I'm gonna think for a
second is that okay no of course I'm
debating between asking you what you
want help with and trying to figure out
what you need help with sorry you cut
off for last aren't there I was I'm
debating in my mind between asking you
what you want help with like how can I
help you and trying to figure out for
myself what I think you need yeah the
thing is I feel like I have so many
aspects that I could need help with I
guess I mean not many but a couple of
aspects like I mentioned feeling
inadequate and always having a fear of
running out of money and stuff but yeah
I guess if you ask me what I need help
with I guess it's dealing with my ego in
a way and breaking out of this cycle of
constant self-hatred about everything
basically
okay so breaking out of that cycle of
constant cycle of self-hatred involves
two approaches one is that we have to
get to the root of where the self-hatred
exists okay and we have to fix that we
have to heal it know the other thing
that we can do is stop the process of
the cycle not get the root but just like
cancel it in the middle so I'm gonna do
both we're gonna do both okay now the
first thing is that as I mentioned to
you before so let me just think for a
second so I think this actually segues
well into what we normally do on Sunday
so I'm gonna try to explain to you gore
how your mind works and like like a
function of it okay so you have this
unshakable belief that you're inadequate
and not good enough and that the rest of
the world it's only a matter of time
before everyone knows you know that's
one part of your mind and whether that
comes from whether it's too simplistic
for me to sort of believe that that
comes from your dad and like watching
your dad die I think it's actually more
complicated than that I don't think you
are quite as emotionally dead as you
sometimes come across I think actually
we're missing it by a little bit and I'm
actually getting I'm overvaluing your
dad's passing I think there's something
actually before your dad's passing that
is actually where the money is and it's
gonna take more time to explore and
figure that out
mmm-hmm there's something weird about
judgement and self-worth and like
there's one question that I've been
wanting to ask you and I just haven't
figured out
how to frame this and it's like did you
think that if you had done a better job
your dad would have been nicer to you
guys or would have been around more no I
don't think I blame myself for that okay
I couldn't find kind of in a real like
usually I ask one question related to
another question I couldn't find
anything relating to that but I just
have to wonder something about you know
it just sounded strange that he was kind
of demonized and around the age of ten
you started to like think like maybe
this is different
yeah because we started having more
contact with each other basically we
started meeting up on every weekend took
me out doing stuff I guess yeah and you
say that your dad loved you a lot
yeah I think so yeah and and so I mean I
I think you blame yourself a lot for not
going to see him before you died before
he died sorry yeah I did I do and and I
think when you blame yourself for that
like you start to think that your aim it
was such a simple thing and such like a
core thing for a son to do for their
father mm-hmm that like that that crime
in your mind I think is unforgivable
yeah I don't like to think about it a
lot because it feels so I guess it feels
pointless cuz he's already dead because
I can't really do anything about it
anymore so when I said that first second
you bit your lip what did you feel in
your body I don't know okay I don't know
how to put it into words okay close your
eyes okay tell me what you feel in your
body right now
I don't know I feel so emotionally numb
but I don't really feel anything
I'm not asking about emotions I'm
talking about physical sensations okay
well I was very aware that my breathing
was very shitty now so now is our
breathing better okay well I feel like
my breathing was extremely shallow okay
I'm just in the stomach yeah for okay
and and what were you feeling in your
stomach or your chest or your throat
well I was feeling really uncomfortable
because my palms are really sweaty and I
guess in my chest I was feeling a little
bit of trembling for some reason I don't
know why yeah
might be related to the breathing okay
what are you are you still feeling the
trembling maybe a little bit I'm feeling
some discomfort in the chest there eyes
closed okay sorry so I want you to put
yourself in the shoes of 18 year old
Gork I'm thinking about 14 year old cork
yeah what do you what do you what do you
feel in your body when you like remember
the way that you used to think about
yourself for not going to see your dad
doesn't feel some guilt but it's not
overbearing because I feel like it 18 I
was still in the clouds playing my video
games so when did it start when did the
guilt start to get bad the guilt started
to get worse the older again so I feel
like this is the worst right now
I'm 26 because when you think about your
13 year old self how do you feel about
that 14 year old cork my 13 year old
feels about my 14 year old and oh sorry
how does how does the current gorg feel
about your 14 year old cork my 13 year
old self what happened back then what do
you mean my so today when you when you
think about the way that you used to be
like just today yes when you think about
when you were in high school and your
dad was sick how do you feel about
yourself I just feel stupid but I feel
like I wouldn't have done anything
different today because I have not
matured since then really I'm just the
same idiot playing games and only
thinking about myself
what do you feel right now in your body
as you say that I feel like comfortable
as they're filling with my hands I don't
know I felt like I started pressing a
bit on myself because I mean maybe it
was a way to self punish I'm not sure
okay uh yeah you guys felt stupid I
guess
yeah what is what a stupid feel like in
your body like flushing hot sensation I
guess where my neck throat face okay is
the flushing still there a little bit I
guess
okay so Corky I want you to sit up
straight okay okay and I want you to lay
your palms face up on your knees I can I
look okay yeah and I want you to breathe
in slowly and out slowly and then again
and I want you to notice continue
breathing and notice the temperature of
your breath and everybody at home should
be doing this to tell me what you notice
about your temperature the temperature
of your breath now notice it's hot and
moist because it my mustache is
absorbing it okay so you're you're
noticing the breath on your mustache
that's what you're paying attention to I
want you to go into the nose what do you
notice about the breath in your nose
well I noticed it's kinda hot because my
room is too [ __ ] hot right now
hot going in or coming out going in okay
so I want you to follow it if you follow
that sensation of heat as it enters your
nose and where does it go well first it
goes in my chest and then I start
filling up my stomach okay what happens
to it is it goes into your chest and
stomach you feel warmth there yeah
warmth a little bit of tingling okay and
then follow it as you exhale as well so
it goes down into your stomach and as
you exhale can you follow it back out
yeah does it change it all on the way
out yeah
feels like it's smoother going out okay
now I want you to pay attention to your
shoulders below your stomach does your
breath to go there well it does now but
if maybe then before okay follow that
sensation we talking about shoulders or
below the stomach goes through the
stomach mostly no okay so pay attention
see if it goes even a little bit beyond
the stomach into the hips into the legs
what do you feel feel a nice warming
calming sensation of my body is okay is
that something that you feel often not
really what is your production
what does your body usually feel
uncomfortable I guess a little bit
sundar shallow breath okay now I think I
know how to help you mm-hmm first of all
what did you think of that practice I
think it was nice
I've tried meditation before but I
didn't feel like it helped me a lot but
I feel like it helped a lot when you
told me what to do
so we're not gonna get so you're not
gonna be able to forgive yourself unless
you first master anger you cut off there
so I said you're not gonna be able to
forgive yourself until you first master
your anger everything is being buried by
your anger anger is the only thing you
can detect even in terms of so what's
happening is like for men especially who
are Alexa thymic the way that I help
them understand their emotions because
many much like yourself like you guys
just can't it's like you're colorblind
and it just doesn't matter how hard I
try to tell you to see the blue or the
purple you just can't see color and
you're not gonna be able to see color
you see just one color which is anger no
right
so it's my belief that the anger in this
we've talked through before that you
have some deeper sense of inadequacy or
shame or your piece of [ __ ] or you don't
deserve like everyone else deserves
forgiveness right but who doesn't
deserve forgiveness court me absolutely
so just like think about that for a
second that is not logical at all that
absolutely comes from an emotion that
comes from a sense of self that comes
from a sense of self that is just you
have committed crimes so bad that you
are unforgivable yeah so somewhere in
there you committed something you did
something where you got this belief that
you are just not worth you're not worth
anything and even though we can
logically kind of get to it I don't
think you can get to it emotionally
which is exactly what you need to know
but in order to get to it the problem is
that your anger protects you from it
because when you get angry at yourself
and winch it and when those five percent
of twitch chat starts hating you you
just jump right on board because you're
like this is a game I know how to play
yeah like I understand how to do this
like this make actually in a weird way
that makes you feel good it does it
makes you feel like it makes it it's
just right it makes you feel righteous
like this is what I deserve
like they see me for the person that I
am which is like a real piece of [ __ ]
you're like I can get on board with that
you guys want to beat the [ __ ] out of me
like let me show you how you can get on
board with that and as long as that
feeling is there you're not gonna be
able to get underneath mm-hmm so you
have to dismantle the anger how through
them by breathing right so the next time
you you start to tilt on stream so
you've got a couple of options one is
that if I can catch you while you're
live I would love it like not live isn't
streaming but it's so hard to evoke
emotion and you that like I want to talk
to you while you feel these things while
they're in your face and while all of
your adaptive mechanisms to protect
yourself are too weak
yeah uh-huh I just found it completely
hilarious thinking that you've been same
discord as me while I'm streaming and
yelling and you telling me to calm down
I'm not gonna tell you to calm down oh
no no buddy I'm not gonna tell you to
calm down not at all [ __ ] no all right
I'm gonna tell you to feel all right
because you have you have these earmuffs
on right so you can't detect emotion
because you're blocking it out so what
we need to do is like when the volume is
way turned up and you feel a lot of
emotion that's what we need to talk
because then if I start asking you
questions you're gonna be able to feel
things yeah yeah I think you have a
point there yeah yeah I also saw
something in your eyes that I haven't
snow at all whoa let's give let's give
to a chat a chance what are you guys
seeing in gorks face right now they got
it are you watching twitch chat I wasn't
I avoid it what did they say they said
hope okay is that what you feel yeah
feels nice talking about it it's very
rare to do something like I guess
helpful for myself yeah that is not self
hatred related then you know like so
it's always nice yeah right so like just
think about that for a second why don't
you do things for yourself Gord
why aren't you kind to yourself because
I don't deserve it
there you go you don't [ __ ] deserve
write crimes against humanity so it
starts with anger mm-hmm
so we have to get you to decompress your
anger and we have to see what's
underneath because anger is that
protective mechanism it's like you know
anger is like it's like justice it's
righteous it's like you know like you
know there's just so much like we have
to get underneath that and see what's
underneath
when you start to tilt when you start to
get pissed when you start to feel these
things about yourself and I suspect that
there's a part of you that actually
doesn't want to feel those things when
you're talking to me like I don't even
think you want to solve this problem
like there's a part of you that's like
this is my life and like this guy's
gonna take it away from me and so you're
actually existing like you don't like
you want to be helped like there's a
part of you that wants to be helped but
there's a part of you that's like if
this guy does it then I'm gonna be I'm
gonna be [ __ ] out of luck because this
must be myself I move exactly so just
think about that for a second you think
this is who you are you think you're
unforgivable you think that you're
inadequate you think that you don't
deserve forgiveness it's it and your
words are then I'm not going to be
myself anymore this is who you are
it's not even think this is who you are
you believe you are this is what you
know you are mm-hmm and so at some point
it's gonna require hope and it's gonna
require facing your fear it's gonna
require courage it's gonna require
you've gotten so comfortable with the
idea that you're you're a piece of [ __ ]
that you're terrified to even check the
thought that you may not be is so scary
yeah what would it mean if you weren't a
piece of [ __ ] well I don't know
everything I've built so far I feels
like I've built on being a piece of [ __ ]
so what does mean not being one so like
your world comes crumbling down around
you right and I think it's got to it's
got to doesn't mean that you're gonna
fail but your world absolutely needs to
come crumbling down because the world
that you built is like toxic dude yeah
it's so toxic it's got to come down all
of it
that requires courage because once it
comes down you don't know what you're
gonna see
Gork this is crazy okay but yeah you are
in an abusive relationship with yourself
yeah I can see that right and like
people get confused because why don't
like people from the outside get
confused they're like why don't people
just like leave their abusive
relationship why don't people move on
what do you think because it's familiar
absolutely yeah right because at least
you know what you're dealing with so the
mind prefers the familiar to the good
very important thing for everyone to
understand the mind prefers the familiar
to the good
prefers comfortable or known to the
unknown
and this is a life that you can continue
living like you can do this you could
beat yourself up you can suffer am I not
gonna die when I'm like 40 out of some
kind of stress or related disease then
let's go feels like where I'm heading
through right now yeah good I mean not
good that you're yeah I mean good that
you're noticing that this is not a way
to live your life good that you came on
today how do you feel about coming on
today I feel glad that I came on I'm
glad you're very understanding and I
felt like I needed to do something for
myself that was productive I had for
instance at I like had like a very I had
a couple bad streams in a row today
today I decided to cut it short because
I didn't want to enter that emotional
state of anger and sadness so I cut it
short but I promise to do something at
least to help out that night I'm glad I
did something at least I'm glad you did
too
you know why I'm glad you came on stream
or because you did something for
yourself you were nice to yourself
how did you treat yourself by coming on
stream
[Music]
I treated myself nicely worked on all
stream yep you also face your fear you
faced your uncertainty you were afraid
to come on weren't you yeah for sure
so this is like this is awesome because
you were afraid of something that
absolutely could happen which is that
you're trolls could attack you which is
the risk that anyone takes by coming on
stream is that they'll get attacked yeah
I wouldn't say that was yeah that was a
maybe there was a big fear but I I then
again I realized most people are
actually pretty nice online yeah it's
just a few people that are rotten apples
I guess but so I want you to just think
about this for a second Gork because
like you realized right but like you
realize like you knew that before but
you didn't realize it until like
recently mm-hmm that's what needs to
change because that fear of that 5% used
to keep you back it used to control your
behavior and already now by this
realisation this is important there's a
difference between knowing or like
information and realization realization
is how you break the cycle
that you knew this before but before you
were letting that knowledge control you
whereas now you realize that it's really
only 5% yeah
does that make sense yeah but that's
like my biggest issue I feel like I have
the knowledge about a lot of things I
need to do right but I don't know what
how I realize it you know how do I make
it a reality
so you do it the same how did you do it
today
by talking to you yeah that helped I
helped them stepping outside of my
comfort zone or didn't mean anything no
so I think all of the above is the short
answer right so I would say the
fundamental source so this is important
for everyone to understand so I think
there's actually great for Sunday stream
because this is all about meditation so
how do we change the person that we are
how do you change it's not information
you feel like you already know what you
need to do you're unable to do it so how
does one change how did you become this
way was it through information
action action and more importantly
experience it was experiences that maybe
way this way no and so what you've done
today absolutely is correct you acted
right and you acted to have an
experience outside of your normal realm
of experience and if you want to break
the cycle you can't keep on putting in
the same things like if I'm baking a
cake and I put the same [ __ ] in it every
time if I put like flour and sugar and
egg and milk and then I take a dump and
mix it all together and bake it it's
gonna taste like [ __ ] if you keep on
putting the same inputs you're gonna get
the same output so if you want to break
the cycle you can't think your way out
of it you have to experience your way
and so what did you do today like you
talked to me you came on stream and by
doing so you actually face your fears
right the whole reason you wanted to
talk in private was because you had very
legitimate concerns your concerns are no
less true they just hold less power over
you and right now the reason that your
life is so stuck is because there are
things that hold there are things within
you that hold power over you
so that you're cut off so so the the
reason that you're stuck is because
there are things within you that hold
power over you
the only book they hold power over you
oh yes yeah right you don't get to
control them they control you your anger
towards yourself your sense of
inadequacy those are the things that
dictate your life your inability to
relax what else is gonna dick and like
this maybe I don't know if you wanted to
cut it off here but sure and go if if
you release anger and release whatever
dictates yours you you to this point
while will drive you forward after that
that's the thing right so let me ask you
like what's behind that question it's
fear so fear is gonna drive me know no
fear isn't gonna drive you I think the
reason you're asking me that question is
because you're afraid yeah right the
reason you're out asking me because like
this is the only thing I've known what
happens like am I is my life gonna end
if I give up these things if I give up
my anger and I give up my shame and I
give up like the bad person that I am
like how can I move forward and they're
you absolutely can but I don't think
that I'm gonna answer your question but
just understand that this answer is not
gonna change you okay you have to
realize it I'm giving you information
mm-hmm right so in my case it's the
Dharma so Dharma means duty or
responsibility mm-hmm so the things that
drive me are not ego are not being
better than other people but for me it's
service in your case I think it can be
Dharma but I think you have a Dharma
also like so you have a duty or
responsibility to yourself to be the
best person that you can be
and being the best person you can be
still means you stream everyday that's
fine it's just the reason you're
streaming is different it's to be the
best dota player you can it's not to be
better than anyone else it's to be the
best there's a subtle but very important
distinction between those two because
you owe it to yourself to live the best
life that you can you owe it to yourself
to make lots of money and also spend a
fair amount of money you owe it to
yourself to build yourself financial
security but not to be a miser out of
fear because you saw what not having
money did to your mom you owe it to
yourself to be like free and have fun
and to meet people and to fall in love
you owe it to yourself to do all these
things to take care of yourself
physically to increase the ventilation
in your room to not die at the age of 40
yeah you owe all of these things to
yourself
by the way do i all these things myself
I mean why why do I have to feel it you
know I don't have to feel it you owe it
to yourself yeah okay but I don't think
that you're gonna understand why until
you have it mm-hmm but what I would tell
you is because generally speaking all we
owe to ourselves is to be what we are
right like what is a rock oh to itself
just to be itself what is the rain oh to
itself just to be itself that's all we
road is to be what we are but I I don't
think that you nor do I believe that
human beings their true essence is
self-hatred in feelings of inadequacy
yeah right and you understand that about
other people you understand that the
rest of the human race is entitled to
self forgiveness like that's obvious to
you mm-hmm but not you
so you have to live and it starts with
this is a very concrete thing is to it's
a good question by the way is is to the
next time you get angry is if you feel
yourself start to tilt or even before
you stream like do this practice right
as you begin to stream like before you
stream before you even like start like
stream labs or whatever used to stream
like you're gonna you're gonna have
these feelings arise like am I gonna do
a good enough job today like what if I
do a good enough job like and we're
gonna let people down like what's gonna
happen so notice all that dialogue
happen in your mind and then close your
eyes and feel what you feel in your body
those thoughts are gonna come with some
sensations warmth heat tension sweaty
palms and your body and your mind are
connected so even if your mind doesn't
know what the emotion is your body is
gonna feel it and so for men the biggest
way to overcome alexithymia the door to
understanding your emotions is your body
so your body will tell you the thing is
like when you say like like just think
about this for a second I was like what
are you what are you feeling Gork and
you're like I don't know I'm like
physically really hard yeah yeah so like
physically like you're like my palms are
sweaty like what emotion is associated
with sweaty palms fear yeah I guess
right fear maybe man because hundreds
unreal my room is super hot I'm an open
window now because yeah everything could
be clouded by the fact I open my window
air there we go yeah so so and this is
the thing is like you know sweaty palms
could be anything could be excitement it
could be lust yeah maybe you were
feeling horny like did you have an
erection like so like yeah but the point
is like as you as you experience this
you're gonna find something you're gonna
find something that you feel in your
body right yeah and and then and then
you I want you to breathe through it and
so you'll like dissolve that emotion a
little bit you'll start to understand
your emotions a little bit more you'll
start to be able to figure things out
about yourself
and then you'll start to be able to see
what's underneath the anger because once
you take the anger away the rest of that
stuff is gonna be there
yeah thoughts questions from chapter
from me you first then he first okay
well I agree with everything you said
the one thing I have a big problem with
I guess is finding the motivation to get
into action after having like a bad
cycle in my head you know yeah I had a
bat I've had a bad stream and it goes
into the next day and instead of doing
anything like I know I've done this
before like I've taken walks before
scream and I know my stream is gonna be
better but the only reason I don't take
a walk is because I'm like [ __ ] I don't
deserve oh I don't deserve a good stream
now or I hate myself so I'm gonna press
I'm gonna wake up and I sit down I'm
gonna press the shark swim button and do
the same thing all over again
so how do i how do I actually like it
sounds so simple but how do I push
myself to not do that and just do what's
actually good for me so the answer is
actually gonna be a little bit
paradoxical you need to stop pushing
yourself and you need to let yourself
because just think about this we push
ourselves when we don't like pushing
yourself is the same as like not it's
like whipping you're whipping yourself
the whole reason you're stuck is because
you've gotten everywhere through
whipping you need to learn a different
way besides whipping okay so like just
cut yourself a break
right say like hey like I really do not
feel like screaming today let me see if
I can find some way to do it so you go
for a walk you close your eyes you do
this practice feel what you feel in your
body and then notice that even as you do
the practice that part of your mind is
gonna start taking over that's gonna be
like oh you're [ __ ] doing it wrong
like why the [ __ ] do you even like why
are you even doing this it's stupid
you're stupid you're just sitting there
like you can sit there and breathe like
it's not gonna do anything just stop
don't do it notice that too because
those thoughts are gonna create a
sensation in your body and look really
hard look really deep find where that
breath go
in your body and that with each breath
something within you that's tight is
gonna be loosened up and then is going
to relax it's like you're stretching out
a rubber band like over and over and
over again and that rubber band is like
tight and it's like angry and it's like
I'm gonna be like stiff and you're
stretching it and then relaxing it
stretching it and then relaxing it and
then after a while it's gonna be like -
like loose and then it like won't won't
hold its tensile strength anymore
sanshiro you know let me see if we can
find a question let me see if these are
about me or you in cells gene site hook
all right okay so someone was asking you
how do we cope with alexithymia so I
think this is the main thing like so
this is what I was explaining to Gork is
that the way to get through alexithymia
is by working through your body right so
like when you're in a situation that you
don't feel good and you don't understand
what you feel focus on your body and
that as you do things as you understand
your body you can do this breathing
practice where you follow the breath to
the parts of the body where you feel
like some kind of negativity and then
like let that breath out because like
Gork was kind of saying that the breath
was hot coming in and it was hot going
out but it was like a better hot going
out than it was a hot going in right no
it's kind of like weird to say - like
when I said just if you guys just walk
if you clip this it doesn't make any
[ __ ] sense but if you did the
practice you know what I'm talking about
so that's like experience right like
information I can tell you okay so you
should do this practice of Gork and it's
gonna be hot going in it's gonna be hot
going out but when it's hot and going
out it's gonna feel better and you're
not gonna understand what the [ __ ] that
means like I could tell you that but
it's not gonna change anything about
your life it's the experience that
changes things
so start with your body and then second
thing is breathe into it and follow the
breath where it goes and over time we'll
will explore a little bit more about
what that means but work let me ask you
something
where does your breath go in your body
like physically do you know well
I consciously try to get it into my
stomach at least I know breathing into
the chest is not so great
yeah so and when you feel something like
does the breath go into your stomach
this oxygen go into your stomach I hope
so
doesn't yes right so oxygen goes into
your lungs oh yes yes of course yeah
where where do the lungs end do you know
uh well somewhere on the stomach I guess
yeah like the top of the abdomen right
so they end it like somewhere around
here in the front and in the back they
don't go down pretty far so then what do
you do do you have any oxygen in your
shoulders no you have a nice zoom in
your stomach no so then what are you
feeling when you breathe in I mean you
feel something there I you know I guess
me expanding my stomach for no reason
unless you can follow the breath there
right like you feel the warmth of the
breath go into your nose and into your
throat down your chest and into your
stomach you feel the warmth in your
stomach yeah it's kind of weird so the
Yogi's called that branagh or Chi yeah
so they said that there's this life
force that that flows throughout our
body and at the simplest way that I can
give people a perception of Chi is
through this practice because you don't
have any breath in your shoulders like
doesn't make any sense but chi or prana
is not not like physically correlated
it's like not a real thing but it's a
sensation it's something that you can
feel can you feel the blood oxygen
coming into the blood do you think or is
it related no okay
I mean not that I know of I haven't
heard anything I mean you do have
receptors that detect the oxygenation of
your blood but I don't think that
they're certainly not in your shoulders
and I don't think that there's any
direct perception of that like
what we feel from that is like a sense
that we need to breathe more or breathe
less know but they sure as hell there's
no there's no oxygen in our shoulders or
our stomach so I don't know what you
feel I don't know from a nerves
standpoint like what we're detecting but
anyway so
Gork last thoughts or questions before
we wrap up for the day no no no thanks
for taking the time to talk with me and
all thanks for coming on yeah just one
or two things so good luck to you let me
know if I can be helpful yeah you know
if you want to talk it doesn't have to
be on stream or anything but if you find
yourself in a rut like just DME okay we
can talk through things for a few
minutes and then you know if you want to
come on stream that's fine too
though and the last thing Gore is so for
everyone so Gork is I think you're
actually like aren't you the most
popular dota2 streamer I mean I'm I'm up
there at least but I'm not sure if I'm
the most vocal I mean like when I watch
when I logo struggles with that every
day but like when I when I just look at
dota 2 yeah
like you're the one who's at the top of
the list it's me and Bulldog I guess on
the English side it kind of depends on
the day okay well Bulldogs gotten some
interesting flack recently I also had
some interesting as well it's all day
we're all taking some heat not quite as
bad well yeah okay well listen so you
guys should check out gore extreme
unless do you want them to come and
watch you or no I mean if they want to
come and watch sure see how I'm dealing
with mangers
yeah so actually can we ask twitch at
for a favor Gork what are we gonna ask
them so I want them to come and help you
on stream help me yeah can we can we
tell them no they're band they're just
gonna say no smiley face there do you
know what does that even mean whose band
no they're saying no smiley face what
does that mean I don't want to come help
no they need to why not because it's
funny
is that like okay so it's some of you
[ __ ] need to go and you need to help
Gork so you need to notice when he's
tilting and remind him oh boy that's not
gonna help
no people already remind me all the time
I don't worry about it
no no but they need to remind you in a
good way is that a bad idea if it's a
bad idea I'll tell them not to do it a
man if they just come come in and type
of pogchamp that's alright you know okay
reminder tape or do their breathing
practice would that tilt you more
maybe it might X should tilt me more but
it's helpful to have a reminder yeah
yeah so notice that - right so like in
that moment is they is they're saying
something the part of you that feels
inadequate and angry is gonna try to
take their messages of love and support
and make you feel more inadequate
because these [ __ ] in twitch at have
to tell you to do it you can't even
[ __ ] do it yourself yeah exactly
that's what that's what happens in your
mind right and notice that be aware that
that's gonna happen and that's not what
they intend I can tell you right now
exactly what's gonna happen in your mind
you can be like [ __ ] I can't even do
this [ __ ] on my own I'm gonna just turn
off stream and I'm [ __ ] shitty no just
just just breathe take a second sit up
straight
back needs to be straight feel that
feeling and then breathe into it
yeah okay right yeah the the the thing
is I I think it's great it's just so
hard when you're in this state and the
only thing I do is cue next game and I'm
like reiterating what went wrong the
last game but it would be great - I
think if I could find the mental
strength in between games like sit down
and breathe for like a minute yeah
twitch app do we need your help with
this right because I can't I can't be
there or I can try but twitch chat can
be there so catch Gork between games and
Gork you got to tell me if this is not
working and then I'll tell them to stop
I just find it very hilarious but like
just try and then like twitch chat also
needs to let you know that like it's
gonna be hard for you
yeah and then they need to forgive you
if you're not able to do it that's
alright okay now we have yes smiley face
and maybe smiley face okay sir smiley
face and maybe smiley face that's great
that's all you can really ask for yeah
so like like seriously help him because
this is important we talk about tarama
we talk about helping people I can't
help everyone I can't be watching gore
Xtreme 24/7 because I'm talking to you
guys so when would Gork is streaming and
he's tilting like like ask him to notice
it right and be with them and you guys
should do it too because it'll help you
too
the more you meditate the better you're
gonna feel No
okay I just tell him to breathe and he
knows ok can we can we can you do that
for twitch at Gork I can do that so so
even if you don't deserve kindness I
want you to think for a second about
them so these are people who are
watching this stream and actually give a
[ __ ] enough to come to your stream sit
there wait for you to tilt and then
they're like waiting around because I'm
actually trying they're trying to help
you yes how does that make you feel
hilarious I'm sorry it doesn't it feel
nice that there are nice people out
there so don't let them down
Gork of course not you can bring
yourself down as much as you want to but
don't let them down of course ok good
luck man you thank you man thanks for a
meal
take care bye thanks for coming on OK
yeah man that's that's a serious
alexithymia right there like if you guys
ever wondered what alexithymia is that's
it right like I think you guys I'm
actually I love that twitch at like you
guys saw the hope in his face see he
doesn't even understand that he has hope
like if I had asked him like what do you
think is gonna happen like that complex
and his mind is gonna say like it's not
going to help it's just and and but it's
there right so that's how change happens
so for all of you guys who are wondering
like how does change happen just watch
that interview and you'll see it at the
end you can see it in his face his
degree of animation his posture like
there's something very subtle and small
changing inside him